# BlackJack

Blackjack, also known as twenty-one and pontoon, is a gambling card game that is popular in casinos all over the world. Its origins are unknown, although it is unmistakably related to a number of French and Italian gambling games. Since World War I, the informal game has been known as pontoon. Players try to achieve a total card value of 21 or near to it without going over than the dealer, against whom all bets are placed. Aces are either 1 or 11, face cards are for 10, and the rest are worth their index value. A hand counting 21 on the first two cards (an Ace and a 10 or face card) is called a natural or blackjack. Suits are irrelevant. In most variations of the game, a player who receives two cards of the same rank may divide them, obtaining a second card for each, and play the two hands independently. Another popular rule is that "doubling down" is permitted with two cards totaling 11 (or 10 in some variants)—the player doubles the stake, turns up the cards, and takes one more card facedown. In some games, a player wins extra if he or she gets five cards without going "bust" (going over 21).

This game is implemented in a GUI(Graphical user interface) with the help of Tkinter. Tkinter is one of the most common and vastly used GUI libraries of python and has many GUI functions to offer. At first, an GUI is created for the screen size of 640x480. Then a frame is created to hold the card values and the card images of both the dealer and the player.Then with the help of load card function all the card images are being loaded into a file. These card values are loaded as cardnumber_cardface.png, and they are further used to calculate scores through the game with some specific predefined functions in it. This function then returns the score to the GUI and is displayed to the user along with the card image. The player can choose to stay or further raise the card value upto but not greater than 21. Finally, the message of the winner is displayed to the user and the game ends here. We can choose to play again or close the application.
